In this video, we're going to cover
code coverage and test reports with IntelliJ.
What is code coverage?
Well, code coverage measures how many methods or lines
are called by your test.
The coverage is represented as a percentage
such as 50% coverage, 70% coverage, and so on.
In general the higher the coverage the better.
However, 100% code coverage is always attainable.
On most teams, 70 to 80% is acceptable.
But you have to be careful here,
code coverage is only a metric
and can be easily tricked with bad tests.
Use the metric as simply one data point
in your software development process.
IntelliJ has support for code coverage built-in.
We can actually generate code coverage reports
in the IDE.
It can also generate HTML output
for viewing in a web browser.
If you're not using IntelliJ, don't worry.
In later videos,
I'll show you how to do the same thing
using Maven commands.
In that scenario no IDE is required,
will simply run Maven from the command-line.
The IntelliJ support for code coverage,
it's simply a menu option or a button on your toolbar.
You say, "Run the Test with Coverage",
and then it'll give you the actual coverage results.
And then you can see the percentage of coverage,
as far as 100%, 80%, 50%, and so on.
And then you can even drill down and see what given class,
and you can even see the actual method that's not covered.
So in this example,
not all of our methods are covered,
and it'll tell you, "Hey, this one method here,
multiply, is not covered by our unit tests."
And we can go through and actually write some tests
to cover that given method
and then that'll increase our coverage.
We can also generate
an external code coverage report in HTML.
So to generate an HTML file,
we can view it on our web browser
and it'll also show the same information
in supporting HTML pages.
So this is useful if you wanted to
maybe take this HTML information
and publish it to a server, a web server,
where your team or managers can access that given server
to see the actual coverage results.
Or this could be a part of your DevOps build process,
where you have a page with the current status
of your given builds.
And then, in addition to code coverage reports,
IntelliJ can also generate test reports
as far as all the test results.
So for each one of your test classes,
then all the different test methods,
it'll show which methods passed
and which methods fail.
And I'll show you how to do this in the upcoming video.
In the IntelliJ documentation,
they have additional features and support for testing
so you can go to the link that I have here on the slide,
and they'll give you all the details
on IntelliJ testing support.
Okay, let's swing to the next video
and I'll show you
how to generate those reports using IntelliJ.